This sound, you know it well, as a general rule when you hear it. Immediately, you will be attracted by your phone to try to understand what has just happened and what you have once again missed in this continuous flow of information. Your brain is at 6 o'clock, learning. A podcast produced by Grégoire Borscht, made by Charles Autroux. I am Grégoire Borscht, I am a professor of psychology, development and cognitive sciences of education and I am the director of the development and education laboratory at CNRS. And in the next 6 episodes of this podcast, I will try to make light on the fundamental mechanisms that support your learning. 

First episode, attention. Attention is one of the basics of our learning mechanisms in our brain. And we are going to talk about your attentional system, the capacity of your brain, not only to focus its attention on a certain amount of information that is present in your environment but more importantly, your capacity to focus on the relevant information that is present in your environment. This is absolutely essential for all your learning. Remember the time you were in the classroom and that you are trying to focus your attention on relevant information that the teacher is trying to transmit to you. 

And to start, we are going to talk to you about this attention that comes from yourself, the one that allows you to orient this flow of information treatment to relevant information of the situation. 

Let's start with a brief introduction. You will hear from two people, discuss one with the other and I will ask you to follow this conversation. Attention, let's start. Have you detected something surprising in this conversation? Priority, not necessarily. You were very focused on the conversation between these two people and you may have neglected something a little surprising that could appear as a background noise. If you hear well, you may have heard I am a gorilla. And not just once. This sentence is repeated almost continuously throughout the conversation. I will ask you to repeat exactly the same conversation and now you will try to focus your attention on this little sentence and to count the number of times you hear I am a gorilla in this flow of information. Stop drinking and everything. Normally, if you have succeeded in focusing on this little sentence you must have detected that it appears six times during this conversation. 

Surprising or not? Indeed, from the moment we are going to orient our attention to a type of information we often have trouble detecting surprising things that can occur in our environment. This is exactly the difficulty that we may have when we are in a learning situation. We are very focused on a certain number of information and then from time to time more surprising information can arise in our environment. This is what we call attentional obscenity. Attentional obscenity is finally the fact that from the moment I am going to engage in an activity that is going to require a lot of my attentional resources I will have trouble getting engaged in this situation to be able to detect information that is relevant in my environment. 

Let's take an example. When you are driving, which explains that it is absolutely forbidden to call while driving, it is precisely because this phenomenon of attentional obscenity can occur, that is to say that your attentional resources are captured by the conversation you are having and you will have trouble detecting something surprising that can occur in your environment. Let's take a very terrifying example. If a motorcycle lands on your right, it is very likely that you will not be able to detect this new object in your environment and therefore there is a risk that you will get into an accident and that you will lose this motorcycle. So this is your attentional obscenity. 

And then there is indeed what comes out of our arbiter book our will to be detected in a flow of information information that is relevant. And this is the strength of our attentional system. It is human beings. We have the capacity, while we live in a world in which there is a lot of information that we can treat at a given moment, we have the capacity to orient our attentional vessel. It is a little like a light vessel of a torch lamp in the dark. Our attention works exactly the same way. We have the capacity to treat a relevant information in our environment. Let's do the experiment together. I will ask you in what follows to detect this sound. You will see that it will not be very obvious because this sound will be masked by a set of distractors. And so your task is to count the number of times where this sound will be presented in a continuous flow of information. Let's start. Normally, if you have managed to do this little exercise, you must have detected that this sound appeared four times in the previous sequence. Not obvious, but we have the capacity since practically our birth to detect and orient our attentional vessel. We have the capacity to detect and orient our attentional vessel. We have the capacity to detect and orient our attentional vessel. We have the capacity to detect and orient our attentional vessel to information that is relevant in our environment. And you know, if you remember these first few years that you spent on school bands and that your teachers were telling you in a slightly repeated way in time, but finally, be concentrated, be attentive, this is what they were talking about, that is to say, at one point, the capacity that you had to have to focus on relevant information in this classroom. At first, it was what the teacher was trying to convey to you in this context. 

At the beginning of this episode, we started with a notification. This notification poses the most global problem of our attentional capacity in a hyperconnected world. To hear each other's voices, we could think that our attentional capacities have collapsed over the last 30 years. There is absolutely nothing. When we use classical neuropsychological tests to evaluate the attention of children today, they have exactly the same attentional capacities as 30 years ago. So the real question is, why are they not attentive to school? This is what we will discover in the next episodes, but one of the keys to understanding is the fact that they are possibly a little less motivated to engage their attention during their learning. And then the second thing is that these children live in a world in which their attentional resources are much more solicited than the world in which we live. This is also part of the explanation to these claims and collapse of our attentional capacities. So no, we do not. You do not have the attention of a red fish. In the second episode, we will see together a second pillar of our learning, our memory capacity. 