A French Culture Podcast E, 9, X, 2, A, 7, T, 0, Z, 2, H, 4 You just heard a sequence of letters and numbers. Without even realizing it, you started memorizing these information. In this second episode, I'm going to talk about your memories, of those that allow you to maintain and manipulate information to solve problems, to those that allow you to recall all your life, that the battle of Marinian took place in 1515. Second episode, memorization. Let's start with the memory of work, the brain workshop. This memory allows you not only to retain information, but also to manipulate it for a few dozen seconds. 

Do you use a sheet and a pen, or do you use a portable phone? I'm going to ask you to be careful with the series of letters that will be presented to you. Once the series is finished, you will have to write all the letters that you remember in the order in which they were presented without making a mistake. 

Are you ready? Let's start. E, X, A, T, Z, H, D, W, N, A, O, B, K, U, E. It's up to you to write all the letters that you remember. Let's take the series back together. The first letter that we have presented is the E, then X, A, T, Z, H, D, W, N, A, O, B, K, U, E. Very likely, you have written the first letters of the series and the last letters of this series. This is what we call the effect of the essence and the effect of precedence. In other words, when we are subjected to a flow of continuous information that exceeds our memory of work, we tend to retain the first information that we have presented, the precedence effect, and the last information that has been presented, the effect of the essence. Our memory of work has a particularity. It has a limited capacity. We have to imagine, finally, a small commode in which each drawer allows us to store information. In average, in the general population, this capacity of the memory of work is of 7 information, more or less 2, since there is a variability of this capacity of the memory of work between the individuals. What does that mean? It means that we have approximately 7 small drawers in our commode to store information. So we say that it's a lot and very little. We are obviously able to manipulate a lot more information at the same time. 

All this depends on our expertise. That's what I'm going to try to make you discover. By using relevant strategies that consist of associating information together, we can occupy less space in this small commode, less small drawers, and therefore memorize much more information. This time, I don't want to introduce you to letters, but to numbers. Always the same advice. You have to remember all the numbers that have been presented without making a mistake in the order in which they have been presented. But this time, I'm going to give you an additional tip. I'm going to teach you how to combine these information to keep more information. Instead of keeping each number individually, I'm going to ask you to do an additional intellectual exercise and for each number presented, combine them with other numbers. If I present you 3, 7, 9, the challenge for you is to keep 379. We can clearly see here that instead of using 3 small drawers in your commode of the memory of work, you only use one drawer. Just like we did earlier, combine 2 sheets of your pen or a cell phone and let's start this series of numbers together. 9, 2, 7, 0, 2, 6, 4, 3, 1, 8, 5, 4. It's up to you. A little easier. Let's take this series of numbers together. The first number we have presented is 9, then 2, 7, 0, 2, 6, 4, 3, 1, 8, 5, 4. With the strategy that I suggested you use, you would have had to remember 927, 026, 431, 854. 

We are actually touching on the development of our memory of work. Our memory of work, its capacity can be trained. We can try to develop it a little, but the real challenge is to develop an expertise to combine the information between them. Because the more we combine information between them, the more we decrease the attentional resources that we engage in our memory of work. And from that moment on, we can manipulate more information at the same time in order to solve more complex problems. So why do we talk to you so much about this memory of work? Because it is the entry into a memory much longer than you always request during your learning, the semantic memory. And this semantic memory, to work it, to memorize information, we need to remind what we talked about during this first episode, our attention. The way in which we will pay attention to information will have a direct effect on our ability to memorize these information. Let's do a little experiment together. I will ask you to memorize a list of words by using a very specific tip. Determined for each of these words, if this word rhymes with the word, love. Pau pier, ciboulette, affirmé, nuage, essémé, espoir, amer, tourbillon, enrhumé, jaune, fleur, allumé. Come on, it's up to you to try to remember the most possible words in the series that we come to present to you. At priori, as earlier, you have no doubt to remember the first words of this series and the last ones. I give you the words to be able to evaluate your memory in this context. First word, paupière, then ciboulette, affirmé, nuage, essémé, espoir, amer, tourbillon, enrhumé, jaune, fleur, allumé. Not so easy as that. Very likely, you have written a part of these words. As earlier, effect of precedence, effect of essence, you have written the first and the last words of this series. But the magic of this series must have been a little bit more complex for you. New experience, experience in which I will ask you to memorize this series of words. I will ask you for each of the words of the series to determine if this word can be inserted into the phrase following. It always does this word inserted in this sentence before it goes. Let's start the series. Valise, plusieurs, trois, révérence, méditation, orange, livre, vaisselle, pirouette, émé, écume. Go ahead, it's up to you. A priori, by engaging more attentional resources in this situation, you have treated these information more deeply semantic and it helps you to memorize them. Let's take the series together to check that you have written more words of this series. Let's start with the first word of this series. Valise, I will ask you for each of the words of this series. I will ask you that you have written more words than in this first series. Valise, plusieurs, trois, révérence, méditation, orange, livre, vaisselle, pirouette, émé, écume. Go ahead, it's up to you to pay attention to the information we have to memorize. The more encoded these information will be deep and it will allow us to be able in the future to recover these information in our semantic memory. Memories have a very large number of them, the semantic memory that finally raises the whole of the effects that we have learned in particular at school, the autobiographical memory, the whole of our memories and then another type of memory, the procedural memory which is finally the memory that we engage in, for example, when we do the bike. So we have talked about two first steps of memory, encoded information, to consolidate this information and then the last step of memorizing which is to search in these networks the relevant information that we need to mobilize in a set of situations of our daily life. Every time we recover information in memory we start again this cycle encoded, consolidation, recovery. Hence the challenge of working our memories as something interactive in perpetual change and which actually needs to counter as time goes by what we call the curve of oblivion. And we can see it if we don't practice a second language, for example, progressively a certain number of vocabulary that we have acquired in this second language will disappear from our memory. In a world where all the information is available in a few clicks and in a few hundred milliseconds the status of our memory still needs to be memorized information. Two ways to see the problem a version purely technological sometimes we could be in white areas in which we would not have access to the network and therefore more access to these information that's a way I would say limited to see this problem there and then we can see the problem in a way a little more complex. Today we are in a world where information circulates with a certain number of false information and the whole issue of our brain is to be able to exercise a critical mind and this critical mind it is dependent on our capacity to invoke knowledge which are reliable knowledge. So the issue of human memory it is obviously even stronger today we need to memorize knowledge facts that can oppose opinions and false semblance of networks that we will talk about in the next episode the capacity of our brain to think by itself and sometimes against itself. 