A podcast from France Culture Jacques said, raise your right hand. Jacques said, touch the end of your nose. Jacques said, close your eyes. Jacques said, whisper your first name. Jacques said, look to the right. Look to the left. I didn't say Jacques said. Not easy. We all played and we all had difficulties at a given moment to resist a thought automatism. That's what we call inhibition. Half of the connections in the human brain are inhibitory connections which send a stop signal so that the signal stops propagating. In all your daily activities, from the moment you try to get out of your routines to no longer be in automatic mode, you have to learn from your brain to say stop. And it's your prefrontal cortex just behind your forehead that allows you to do that. 

The main character of this episode is your prefrontal cortex, the one that allows you to inhibit and be flexible. Third episode, inhibition and flexibility. Let's start with a little experience. An emblematic experience of experimental psychology. It was proposed for the first time in 1935 by J.R. Stroup. An experience adapted to an auditory sequence. I'm going to ask you to identify if the person who speaks to you is a man or a woman. Every time you hear a voice of man, you say man. Every time you hear a voice of woman, you say woman. Let's start the show. Mom Dad Person Person Dad Mom Mom Mom Person Dad Dad Dad Mom Person Mom Mom Person We can see that from time to time, the experience becomes a little more difficult. When you hear mom pronounced by a woman, it's much simpler than when you hear mom pronounced by a voice of man. Implicit association, irrepressible in our brain, we associate mom to a woman and dad to a man. Regardless of the questions of gender stereotypes associated with this experience, our brain, in each of these situations, has to prove discernment. It must, in a number of cases, stop this association between mom and the feminine gender and dad and the masculine gender. Your brain puts a little more time when there is a conflict between two information. Why does it take a little more time? Because it must mobilize more attentional resources and engage the prefrontal cortex to resolve this conflict. In this experience, but also in everyday life, this capacity to say stop allows you to get out of your routines. 

Let's take a very concrete example. Every day, when you go out to work, you turn right to the first intersection. And then, this day, you go on vacation and without even realizing it, you turn right to the intersection, even if, to go take the highway, you would have to turn left to this intersection. This is the strength of our routines and the strength of our brain, it is precisely to have the capacity, in a certain number of contexts, to get out of these routines. This is what we call inhibition. So, this inhibition, it is found in our daily life activities, but it is also absolutely fundamental to bring us to a good reason. Let's take an example together. 

I will ask you to answer a small logical problem, very simple. If I tell you that a rubber and a stylo costs 12 euros, that the stylo costs 10 euros more than the rubber, you deduce that the rubber costs, I leave you a few seconds to think, the rubber costs 2 euros, 1 euro? Very likely, the first answer that came to your mind, as for me, should be 2 euros. Why? Because from the moment you heard more than in the announcement of this problem, your brain automatically, irrepressibly, started to make a subtraction to determine the right answer in this context. Not obvious, because even when I told you that, you are still in a situation where you have trouble to take advantage of the first answer that you have produced. If the rubber costs 2 euros, the stylo alone costs 12 euros, since I told you that this stylo costs 10 euros more than the rubber. 12 euros of stylo plus 2 euros of rubber, we are already at 14 euros, even though I told you that the stylo and the rubber cost 12 euros to help. The right answer is 1 euro. 

The real question is, what pushes your brain at a given moment, in a systematic way, to the subtraction and the least that to the addition. Very likely, because during your school learning, you have created this thinking automatism, and in particular in a situation where you have learned to solve arithmetic problems in verbal content. I explain myself. When you were in CE2-CM, your school professors, you learned to solve the next problem. Maya Avambi, she has 10 more than Marlowe. How much Marlowe has? In a few hundred milliseconds, you have already determined that Marlowe has 10 bills. If you remember the first time when you presented this problem, you have without exception all and all answered 30. Why? Because you have heard more in the announcement of the problem, and it is automatically triggered the association, plus I do an addition, less, I do a subtraction. And it is this automatism that you have to deconstruct in this situation. What your teacher or your teacher has taught you in this context, is to deconstruct this problem in successive steps. In other words, he told you Maya Avambi, he may have even put Avambi on your table. He then explained to you that she has 10 more than Marlowe. And here is the crucial step of the resolution of this problem. It means that in fact, Marlowe has 10 less than Maya. And at that time, you have made reappearance, the congruence between the announcement of the problem and the arithmetic operation to do. So what happened? Is that really what you have learned? Did you learn a new logical skills? Not quite. Re-expose to this situation without even realizing your brain detected a regularity. A quick, little expensive regularity and which allows me, in this context, to get the right answer. And this regularity is more than I do a subtraction, less than I do an addition. And it is precisely this regularity, this automatism of thought that comes to be interfered with the small problem that I presented at the beginning of this sequence. So finally, the learning is this. Regardless of the context, our brain will detect regularity in the environment. And these regularity, they are very adapted to a given context, but generalized to other contexts, they can bring us wrong in a systematic way. So all the play for our brain, for our capacity to resonate logically, it is precisely to exercise this function. 

Stop blocking this automatism to re-engage our analytical and deliberative thinking. And all along your school learning, this is what your brain had to learn to do. To be able to learn to resist in this context, but also in other contexts, we can think here of our capacity to be empathetic. This capacity to be empathetic, it rests on your capacity to get you down to the other, to understand the emotional state it goes through, and what causes this emotional state. And what we have shown in our laboratory is that this capacity to take an heterocentric point of view on a situation, it rests in the first place on your capacity to inhibit your egocentric point of view. Not easy, because we perceive the world always of our own position in space. It is better to understand this function fundamentally to adapt to a world that changes faster and faster. This stop function allows us to exercise our free will to think about and against ourselves. It is at the heart of what makes our humanity the fact that as human beings we can be other things than routine beings. And maybe that's the big issue of education, to learn to understand this stop function is what we are going to learn in the next episode. Exercise your metacognition i.e. your knowledge on your own learning mechanism in your brain. 