On the other hand, I think we did quite a good game. We were lacking a little bit of offensive percussion, especially justice in the last and sometimes the last move. I think we were not far from 30 centres in the game, which is still a lot, but sometimes we lack quality in the centre, but sometimes also not necessarily enough presence in the surface or not always the right move. 

What do we hear here? Something that keeps our brain going. An analysis of the whole process that we engage in the learning situation. This is what we call the metacognition, your knowledge on your own acquisition system of knowledge. This is what we are going to talk about in this episode. 

Fourth episode, the metacognition. Let's start with your ability to judge your own performance. I'm going to ask you to make a small series of simple arithmetic operations very quickly, without using a calculator. Start with a sheet of a pencil, on which you can type the result of each of these arithmetic operations. Are you ready? Let's start. 90 divided by 5 6 times 20 24 divided by 3 4 times 15 36 divided by 4 Now I'm going to ask you to evaluate on a scale of 0 to 10 the number of arithmetic operations that you think have resolved. I'll leave you a few seconds. Now I'm going to give you the result of each of these operations. Let's do it again. 8 times 7 56 48 divided by 3 16 12 times 5 60 88 divided by 4 22 6 times 7 42 90 divided by 5 18 6 times 20 120 24 divided by 3 8 4 times 15 60 and finally 36 divided by 4 equals 9 Now count the number of correct answers and compare the number of correct answers that you think have. If your performance is identical to your evaluation, you have therefore proved a very good metacognitive judgment that you are able to evaluate your performance before or after you are involved in a situation. So why is it so important to develop a good metacognitive judgment for your learning? Because it is absolutely fundamental to learn from your mistakes. But for that, you need to resist, we talked about it in the previous episode, to stop an extremely present bias in your brain. We are talking here about the bias of a Dunning–Kruger effect. In the case of a Dunning–Kruger effect, you have experienced it during your school days. Remember, you get out of the classroom, you are absolutely convinced that you have perfectly succeeded in controlling what you have just done. And then, three weeks later, the note falls and your note is catastrophic. This little delta between my absolute certainty of having succeeded in controlling and the real note that I obtained, the effect of a Dunning–Kruger effect, is to say a bias of overestimation of its performance. So why is it so problematic to overestimate these performances? This is an extremely important impact for our learnings because we tend to attribute in these cases our failure to external causes. You had failed in this control, not because you did not have enough to revise, but obviously because you asked questions that were not in the program. From the moment I attribute to external causes, internal causes that produce my failure, I can not benefit from this capacity that we can have to learn from our mistakes. 

Because in the end, our brain, that's how it learns. It learns by the very bias of the mistakes that we commit in a certain number of situations. Let's take another situation. We know, for example, to come back to a previous episode of this podcast, that the fact of questioning yourself about information that we try to memorize has a positive effect on our memorization. Why? Not because the questioning allows us to memorize the information better, but because the fact of questioning yourself on a text that we come from reading precisely allows us to carefully evaluate what we have written and what we have not yet written. 

And it allows, in the second reading, to orient our attention. We have already talked about it to relevant information that is contained in the text. This capacity to judge our own performance, it is at the heart of our capacity to learn. This metacognitive judgment, it is associated with other metacognitive strategies and especially two absolutely fundamental capacities which are planning and our capacity to supervise the strategies that we use in a situation of problem resolution. Imagine that you enter a room and that you find on a table, a desk box, a light box and a candle. And that I ask you to fix this candle on a panel of ledges fixed vertically on a wall in such a way that the candle once lit does not fall on the table. I leave you a few seconds to think about it. This task needs to plan the different stages of problem resolution. That is to say that even before getting involved in the activity, you have tried to think about these different steps that will allow you, infinitely, to find the solution to this problem. So in the first place, to empty the box of ledges. Use the bottom of this box to hang it on the panel of ledges with the ledges then fix the candle on this bottom of the box of ledges by melting the base of the candle and finally we turn on the candle of this candle. It is very likely that you will not find the solution right away and that you are involved in a series of steps that are infractious. You have therefore supervised your strategies. This ability to supervise your strategies in real time allows you to adapt, to be flexible, to change strategies when this strategy no longer works. This faculty to plan your strategies in real time during a task is involved in all your learning. 

Remember, when you started to make a puzzle, the first time you tried to make mistakes. The image was in front of you, you took each of the pieces of the puzzle and in a somewhat laborious way tried to associate each of these pieces of the puzzle not necessarily the best strategy. And then gradually you learned to plan this activity. In other words, you started with the blocks then the edges and then you continued by the inside of the puzzle. Gradually, you then realized that certain strategies work better than others that allow you to make this activity much more effective. In our laboratory, the psychology laboratory of development and education of the child, we have shown that school and educational inequalities can be explained in part by relative difficulties in our cognitive knowledge, knowing how our brain works, knowing the strategies we need in a given situation and precisely these metacognitive strategies that we have talked about, this ability to plan an activity, supervise the strategies in class and evaluate what we have produced during this activity. The laboratory's Paris has tried to teach very explicitly to maternal children these metacognitive knowledge and strategies because they constitute the basic bricks of all our learning. By having knowledge on your attention system, on your memory, on your ability to inhibit and flexibility that you can actually acquire what is called the fundamentals of learning before even entering the fundamentals, reading and mathematics. If educational inequalities are explained in part by inequalities of acquisition of these metacognitive strategies and these metacognitive strategies, there is therefore a challenge to teach them in an extremely explicit way. But that's not enough. To learn, you need to be motivated and have a state of mind of change based on your learning. That's what we'll see in the next episode. See you soon. 