A French Culture Podcast I love you. Do you understand? I love you. What you accomplish is just gigantic. You deserve to keep you. You deserve to keep you. It's been two months and a half that I tell you that you will keep you. The problem is to know if you have the ability, physical, technical, to do it. It's now that you have to do it. Motivant. Clearly, we would almost want to go down the field to play with them. That's exactly what we're going to talk about during this episode. We're going to talk about your motivation. Your motivation to learn. Motivation that can be supported either by external rewards, or by internal rewards. We're going to talk here about your motivation. Intrinsack is your extrinsack motivation. Fifth episode. Motivation is the spirit of change. Let's start with extrinsack motivation. To illustrate this mechanism in the heart of our learning, we're going to take part in a little experiment. I'm going to ask you every time you hear Right. To raise your hand right. And every time you hear Left. To raise your left hand. Be careful, you have very little time to answer. To make the experiment a little more complex, every time you hear this signal, you shouldn't raise your hand. This signal can appear at any time after you've heard Left. Or right. Right. But you shouldn't anticipate it, otherwise you won't have the time to raise your hand when you have to raise it. Count one point every time you raise your hand when you have to raise it, and remove one point when you have to raise it when the siren has resumed. Are you ready? Let's go! Left. Right. Right. Left. Left. Right. Right. Right. Left. Left. Left. Right. Right. Left. Right. You were competing with the audience of this podcast. You were involved even more strongly in this situation that you were in a competition context and that there was a reward at the key. Here, the reward is minimal. But you just have to activate in your brain a set of limbic system structures. System is lost in the heart of your brain which will in return influence the activity of all the cortex zones that are involved in the activity in the course and you are therefore often more motivated when there is a gain in the key and in general more performant. This motivation is said to be extrinsic because it is guided by rewards that we receive from others. Here the reward that you have obtained to participate in this experience and the points that you could accumulate. You are obviously very familiar with this extrinsic motivation. Since your entrance to school, you have essentially worked to obtain good notes. The notes therefore play as a factor of reward that pushes us to work more, to be more perseverant and which regulates the whole of our learning and it works rather well. Except that in the time, this extrinsic motivation can be dependent on our intrinsic motivation, that is to say our pleasure to learn, to develop an expertise, to acquire knowledge. This motivation comes from ourselves, which makes us sometimes engage in learnings that can be long, annoying but which are ultimately extended to the daily by this clean will that we have to develop an expertise and acquire new knowledge. Let's take here the same experience as the one I presented to you a few minutes ago. Exactly the same sign. Except that now the goal for you is to master as best as possible this capacity to stop you when you hear the signal. Not because you are going to gain more points but because this capacity allows you to make the right decisions in your daily life, as we have explained in a previous episode of the podcast. Like the first time, count a point each time you raise your hand when you get up and remove a point when you have raised it while the siren has re-entered. Recount each time you hear left, raise your left hand each time you hear right, raise your right hand and each time you hear the signal stop, at this moment you do not raise your left hand nor your right hand. Are you ready? Let's go! Left, right, right, left, left, right, right, left, right, right, left, right, right, left. As earlier, the task has not changed and for yet you have no doubt felt that you did not have at all the same motivations in this situation and even if you have not been more performant than earlier, you have no doubt experienced more pleasure learning from this experience. We no longer seem in a context of competition, of social comparison with others. We engage in this learning situation by the simple fact of the will that we have developed, a new skill. There are many levers to promote this intrinsic motivation during learning. In addition to the fact of presenting the objective in terms of mastery than of performance. This is exactly what I did with you. The first time that I presented the experience to you, I told you that you have to get the most points possible in this situation. The second time, I told you that the challenge for you was to develop a mastery of this situation. Some studies show for example that students are more motivated to learn when teachers present them the learning situation as a situation or as an opportunity to interact with others. So we can present the learning situation either for mastery, or for performance, even neither one nor the other. The simple fact that as a student, I know that I can develop social interactions with others from the social link can lead me to be more motivated to engage in these learnings. Finally, we are at the heart of the reactor of our learnings. To learn, obviously, we must be motivated to learn. We must be able to cultivate this pleasure of learning. Not obvious. Our educational system is not really made to cultivate this pleasure of learning. This is a little paradox because when you look at a child during his first learnings, whether it is walking, language, motorcycling, the ability to recognize emotions, the ability finally to solve problems more and more complex, this capacity that he also has to engage in complex learnings, such as learning how to ride, you can clearly see that there is a real pleasure to learn. And therefore, the whole issue of our educational system is to build a system that will promote this intrinsic motivation. Except that, to be motivated, and so that this intrinsic motivation can develop, we must also be able to develop their state of mind in the face of learning. I explain myself. If I ask you a very simple question, do you think that you can change your intelligence? Most of you will have a very fixed conception of their intelligence. Paradox, we are quite naive in this situation. We consider that finally, we are intelligent or we are not intelligent. And if I bring you to your school learnings, you think that you were necessarily bad in math or good in math. And sometimes even you explain that you were bad in math because your father or your mother was themselves bad or good in mathematics. The more you come from a social environment, the more you have a fixed conception of your learnings. So regardless of your motivation, intrinsic or extrinsic, if you consider that whatever you do, you are condemned to be bad in math, you will obviously have more difficulties to engage in the situation of learning. So the whole issue is to be able to also succeed by promoting this intrinsic motivation to promote a state of mind, of change, in the face of our learnings. And we can clearly see that we are questioning something through this motivation and this state of mind, of change, absolutely fundamental for our learnings, the emotions that we engage in these situations. This is what we will see in the last episode. 