A France Culture podcast. Sixth episode. Emotions. In this last episode, we're going to talk about the role of your emotions in your learning. And to start this episode, I'm going to change roles and transform myself into a radio animator. Go on, music! LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE HAPPINESS IS THE TRUTHER Because I'm happy LONG IF YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPINESS IS YOU I'm happy LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO DO You just listened to Happy by Pharrell Williams. Let's go straight to the second song. LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE HAPPINESS IS THE TRUTH Because I'm happy LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO DO Because I'm happy LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO DO Because I'm happy LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO DO Because I'm happy LONG IF YOU FEEL LIKE THAT'S WHAT YOU WANT TO DO Because I'm happy Love is all about the love Love is bad Sometimes it lasts Sometimes it lasts Sometimes it upset Sometimes it hurts You just listen to this song You just listen to this song You just listen to this song You just listen to this song You just listen to this song very negative, very positive, and then in a second time I will ask you to try to evaluate the strength or intensity of this emotion that you have felt, always on each of these pieces of music, on a scale of 1, very low to 7, very strong intensity. I leave you a few seconds to do this evaluation of each of the two pieces of music. We come together to evaluate two fundamental dimensions of all emotions, their balance and their intensity. When we talk about the balance of this emotion, it is very likely that the first piece of music, you have rather given a score around 5, 6 or 7, since indeed we are there in a rather positive emotion that we feel. When we listen to the second piece of music, Adele Summon Like You, very likely you have felt a more negative emotion and therefore you have undoubtedly given a score of 1, 2 or 3. Here we therefore talk about the balance, this positive and negative side of an emotion. Joy, sadness are two emotions with very opposite balances. You have also felt a different intensity in these two pieces. You evaluate this balance and this intensity through the mind of your limbic system, the one we have already talked about in the previous episode, and which allows you to be motivated to learn, but it also allows you to feel emotions. This cerebral treatment of your emotions generates a set of physiological reactions in the cascade. Cry if you are sad, laugh if you are happy. As for all other fields, recognize emotions and regulate them with a learning with periods of life where it is more or less easy to compose with our emotions. Remember here for example your adolescence, the moment of life where regulating these emotions was not so easy as that. This is actually entirely linked to the way your brain is developed, your limbic system at adolescence is a kind of coconut minute that has finished its development, even though your prefrontal cortex which allows you to regulate your emotions and therefore the activity of your limbic system will continue to develop for several years. So our emotions have a key role in all our learnings. They allow us to stay motivated, to persevere, to change our strategy when we cheat, to take pleasure in our learnings. It is enough to observe a child who learns to read, to walk or to speak to see that he is constantly crossed by emotions, from the frustration of not being able to decipher a word to the absolute joy of finally being able to decode this sequence of letters that there are still a few minutes left to resist. Learning from these mistakes rests here too on our emotions. Every time we cheat, we feel a negative emotion. In the same situation, it is the memory of this emotional state that will push us to adopt another strategy, to seek another solution, to eventually find the most suitable answer. Learning also rests on more complex emotions, on emotions that we could even qualify as intellectuals, as already suggested Theodule Ribeau at the end of the 19th century. Theodule Ribeau, experimentalist psychologist, one of the directors of the laboratory that I have the chance to direct to the Sorbonne 135 years after. Emotions are said to be counterfactual, such as regret and or the relief. These two emotions are said to be counterfactual because they rely on a comparison between what has happened and what could have happened if you had made a different choice. Let's put ourselves in a situation to experiment on regret or relief. Let's imagine the following situation. You participate in a lottery and you can choose one or the other of two wheels of fortune. In the first one, you have 3 chances of winning 180 euros, but be careful, you have 7 chances of losing 90 euros. First wheel. In the second, you have 7 chances of winning 10 euros, but be careful, 3 chances of losing 5 euros. I leave you a few seconds to make your choice. The two wheels of fortune are now launched and they end up with the following result. Those who chose the first one won 180 euros. Those who chose the second one lost 5 euros. Now evaluate on a scale. How do you feel from a very strong regret to a very strong relief? For those who chose the first wheel, you are not only happy to have won the bet, but you feel a certain kind of relief not to have chosen the other wheel. If on the contrary you chose the wheel that allowed you to win 10 euros, with the risk of losing 5 euros, you experience a highly unpleasant emotion, the regret of having missed an opportunity. These two emotions are fundamental in all our decisions and in all our learnings because they allow us, posteriori, to have precious indications on what we should have done. And therefore, placed in the same context in the future, these two emotions allow us to adjust to choose the right solution in a given context. These emotions not only allow us to guide our choices to posteriori, and therefore to learn, but we can also anticipate them to make more rational decisions. We have been in the middle of the Covid crisis, an experience in the case of an opinion study led by Ipsos. This study aimed at better understanding the hesitations of the French at the very beginning of the vaccination campaign. We asked them simply how they were sure they would get vaccinated when their return would come. More than 60% of them declared at that time they hesitated. We then asked them, for a third of them, to imagine the regret they could feel if they did not get vaccinated and that they fell ill in the months they followed. For a third of them, to imagine the regret they could feel if they did not get vaccinated and that they condemned someone in the months they followed. And finally, for a third of them, we do not ask them any questions related to the regrets of not being vaccinated. At the end of the survey, we asked them how they were sure they would get vaccinated when their return would come. The simple fact of asking them to anticipate the regret they could feel if they did not get vaccinated, was enough to decrease their result from more than 10 points, but only when regret was at risk of falling ill personally. We are not as altruistic as it is when it comes to our own health. Our emotions, the most primary like joy, fear, sadness or more complex, regret, relief, are at the heart of all our learnings. They are still very little considered our educational system, even though learning is an extremely powerful engine, as we have seen previously. Programmes that aim to reinforce the understanding of emotions, how to learn to regulate them, have also shown their effectiveness not only to improve the well-being of students during their learning, but also the school success and even sometimes parental practices. We have also shown at the laboratory in a study that the school success is one of the factors that support the school success, especially children from disadvantaged environments in third grade. This is therefore a real challenge how to build a school that is respectful of the well-being of its students. 